this is the year that Windows laptops
finally stop sucking cuz we saw some
good devices from Intel we saw some
really nice devices from Qualcomm but we
were all waiting to see what AMD would
bring with their new tech so we finally
have an allnew chip from AMD inside an
all new laptop from Asus the zambuk s16
now the naming around this chip is God
awful per huge they went with the AMD
ryzen ai9
HX 370 it's a terrible name but there's
two chips the 370 at the top end and
then the base model the 365 and both
these chips have great performance
particularly the 370 and they're also
very energy efficient now some thoughts
about the design of the Zenbook s16 this
is a very thin device it measures in at
12 to 13 mm thick depending on where you
throw the caliper but typically when you
have a design that is so thin for an x86
laptop you just get bad performance but
because of this new chip they enabled
you can do it on this device quite well
just to keep it super thin uh and also
despite it being super thin you still
have two USBC a HDMI as well as uh the
USB a and fulls sizee SD on the right
side so it's just like I think they've
done a good job in terms of the kind of
overall package and also the top so this
is a they call it a Ser aluminum finish
it's a terrible name typical Asus but it
is a ceramic polymer that is bonded to
the top aluminum layer and it's like
it's supposed to make it a little the
surface a little bit harder it almost
feels like polished concrete or polished
Stone also comes in two colors there's a
dark gray which I think looks
nice if you don't like this cream color
cuz this thing looks sick dude I love it
and then the third thing in terms of the
design that's interesting to me is this
series of holes for the grill so this
Grill is mached out with these small
holes and then inside those holes are
the even tinier holes and you just get a
very unique looking design now I would
imagine that if you just CN seed this
stuff out with larger holes it would be
cheaper to produce because there's like
less Machining time and I imagine you
would just get better air flow with
bigger holes but this is a very unique
look and also I've been told that if you
spill liquids on this because the holes
are so small it's slightly more spill
resistant than if you just went with
those large large holes but it's a
unique look now the screen this is a
sweet screen so this is rocking a 16in
OLED panel uh both of these have the
16inch OLED panel and I mean they just
look so good so it's a very nice screen
in terms of the image quality because
it's an OLED panel and it's also a very
fast screen 120 HZ refresh rate with a
response time that's well under a
millisecond and the color is on point
and it's a touchcreen so there's pencil
support I think some configurations
include a pen in the Box uh the base
ones don't but this is an awesome screen
in regards to Performance I tested out
both the 365 chip as well as the HX 370
chip and on both these devices the
default power settings at 17 watts and
if you bump it up to the highest
performance mode it's at 28 Watts on
both of them now this chip that's inside
these things they're able to go up to 54
Watts obviously you need a thicker
device to pull it off but in some
devices I'm sure some companies will
ramp it up to that power setting but the
thing is even at this lower or reduced
power you're getting really good
performance these are really energy
efficient chips and because it's such an
energy efficient device the heat output
is not a lot and the fan noise is very
quiet and it's the main reason why
they're able to keep this device super
thin and when they first showed this
device to me last may like a few months
ago I I didn't believe that they'd be
able to do it I remember looking at the
device and I'm like okay it's amd's new
chip I felt like it was going to be too
thin I looked at the device back then I
was like there's no way like how can you
keep a device this thin and get like the
expected performance that the world is
used to when it comes to an AMD ryzen
chip but it's here and it's good and if
you take a look inside there's a super
thin Vapor chamber on top of the chip as
well as some graphite sheets and there's
also a pair of fans and you just get
really Solid thermal performance for a
device so thin even in games now there's
two different gpus depending on the chip
that you get on the base chip the 365
you get a Radeon 880m and then on the
higher tier chip you get the 890m this
just has more compute units than the
base model and these are a noticeable
step up from the previous generation of
amd's onboard GPU the 780m now if you're
playing light titles these are awesome
if you're playing like moderately
demanding games it's an okay GPU but
keep in mind this is an onboard GPU
running at relatively low wattage on
super thin devices so I'm impressed in
terms of what they're able to pull off
but if you want like crazy good gaming
performance these won't give it to you
you still have to get uh discrete gpus
from Nvidia or AMD now in terms of video
editing performance if you're curious
like I was the HX 370 with its higher
core count is actually surprisingly good
at it again it's a super thin system so
if you want something that's like very
portable this will do the job uh better
than you might expect now despite its
good performance there is one thing that
I would say is a thermal kind of
limitation on this device the keyboard
gets warm when you're using it it
doesn't get uncomfortably hot but it is
something that I noticed pretty early on
in my testing is like if you're playing
games or something or if you're doing a
video edit on either of these machines I
just don't think this device was thick
enough to get the heat off of the
keyboard as well they have a graphite
sheet that helps uh but it's designed
right now perfectly in terms of like
sustaining performance so it doesn't
throttle aggressively but it's a warm
keyboard and I do think that if they
made it a little bit thicker they could
have solved that now the keyboard itself
it's back lit nicely like uh I'll just
show you real quick it is a very bright
backlight which I like seeing uh it's a
very fast keyboard to type on I'm very
comfortable on it but it doesn't feel as
responsive as I would hope I think that
the the key travel is a little bit
shallow and I think again it's just a
super thin device and this is just what
they had to do if I'm being honest I
wish they had made this device like one
or 2 mm thicker I think it wouldn't have
changed the kind of form factor there
like it's still been a very thin device
but I think it's just that extra
millimeter or two they would have been
able to have a more responsive feeling
keyboard and I think they would have
fixed the warm keyboard thing that I'm
talking about the trackpad is nice and
big and it's centered in the middle of
the device because there's no number pad
on the side but there's a feature on the
device that allows you to kind of slide
up and down on the edge of the devices
to control things like brightness if you
go on the right as well as volume on the
left but these are both just I feel like
they're just underbaked because I don't
get a
responsive feel out of them I'd rather
just hit the buttons and just be
accurate on my brightness and volume
control here I'm just like sometimes it
works and then sometimes I'm just moving
the cursor I think a software update
would fix it but it's just something I
noticed uh the speakers very good I
think Asus has just figured out how to
do good speakers on laptops like so the
G14 and g16 their gaming devices also
had killer speakers and same idea here
just way better sounding than basically
the rest of the laptop industry right
now so uh they got that going I would
actually say that the s16 sounds better
than at least a 15-in MacBook Air if
you're just directly comparing kind of
thin and light devices but these don't
sound as good as the 16-in MacBook Pro
speakers the battery takes up a big
portion of the internal space and this
is a 78w hour battery now over the past
couple of years AMD chips were the best
choice when it came to just having long
battery life Windows laptops and it's
just even better now because this
generation of Chip is just super energy
efficient so you'll notice the biggest
gains when you're just doing light tasks
so if you're browsing the web or
checking email just doing stuff that
isn't particularly intensive on the chip
it's going to last a very long time on
the Zenbook now something I just thought
I would mention if you noticed I had
some gaming laptops on that TR it's
because I'm trying to match battery size
like this is a particular battery size I
try to match the battery size when I do
comparisons and sometimes I have to dig
into the pile of gaming laptops I
obviously disabl the gpus to do it but
that's just how I do my testing I've
always done it with battery size
matching uh okay one last thing bring it
up real quick is topic of AI because a
lot of the marketing around this chip is
about the npu components going up to $50
tops but we have yet to see some kind of
killer app or killer feature from
Microsoft which utilizes that npu that
makes me go okay everyone should be
going getting laptops with npu
capabilities uh the other thing I
thought was strange is that this device
despite it having 50 tops npu is not a
co-pilot plus laptop like only the
Snapdragon X Elite devices are maybe
this comes in time but it's seemingly
just a regular laptop to Microsoft at
this point in time uh okay so overall
very good device I want to talk about
the price
$13.99 it is expensive it is priced
definitely as a premium product and 1399
is the base model the the HX 370
equipped one with more RAM and stuff is
uh I think it's like $2 or $300 more now
when it comes to a product like this I'm
not going to be the guy that's be like
this is you should buy this or you
shouldn't buy this like what you buy is
entirely up to you depending on your
budget okay but I think that because
this thing is so thin and because right
now there's nothing else on the market
that has this kind of performance with
an x86 chip that can do what this thing
can do so I think it's just priced like
that because they know they have
something fairly unique and because it's
kind of like a premium finish and
premium Aesthetics they can do that I
think that that's what you get when you
come to Market with something fresh like
this uh but I do think that if you're on
the market for something that's super
thin like this the this will not
disappoint this actually delivers way
more than I thought it would it's quite
impressive but I think if you're on a
tighter budget you just wait a little
bit there's going to be other devices
out there that won't be as nice but
they'll be cheaper okay so there you
have it that's the zambuk s16 with the
new chips from AMD